---
layout: post
title: Efficient IO with io_uring
---

io\_uring<sup><a id="fnr.1" class="footref" href="#fn.1">1</a></sup> is an new design in Linux IO, it may overcome the problems
found in sync IO and async IO like aio, and embrace the polled IO found in
mordern IO patterns. The article titled "Efficient IO with io\_uring"<sup><a id="fnr.1.100" class="footref" href="#fn.1">1</a></sup>
is ease to follow. On Jan 24, 2020, LWN published an excellent summary the 
current status of io\_uring, "The rapid growth of io\_uring"<sup><a id="fnr.2" class="footref" href="#fn.2">2</a></sup>, which 
is also a must-read. I am expecting io\_uring to be used in database and storage
systems.

Followed is the hightlights of "Efficient IO with io\_uring".


# Introduction

1.  sync io: read, write, preadv, pwritev, and even preadv2, pwritev2<sup><a id="fnr.3" class="footref" href="#fn.3">3</a></sup>.
2.  async io: posix - aio\_read, aio\_write; linux aio.
3.  async aio problems in linux:.
    1.  O\_DIRECT only
    2.  may block on metadata op or limit of request slots
    3.  memcpy overhead and at least two syscalls for submit and wait-for-complete

The result is not so many apps use aio, and earlier tries on improvement failed.


# Improve on aio APIs

The author tried to improve the IO based on aio APIS, but due to its
complicateness, not clear, and finally given up.


# New interface design goals

Performance first, easy to use, extendable etc.


# Enter io\_uring

Performance first, avoid memcpy (zero copy like SPDK?).
Ring buffer shared between user land and system land.
submission queue, completion quque.

1.  Struct of cqe is straight forward.
2.  Struct of sqe is complex.
3.  ioprio\_set(2)


# Communication channel

1.  ring buffer
    It is a trick used by kernel <sup><a id="fnr.4" class="footref" href="#fn.4">4</a></sup>.
    To make sure the wrap around value is the 0-th element, it must be in 2^N in
    size<sup><a id="fnr.5" class="footref" href="#fn.5">5</a></sup>.

2.  why indirect index in sqe?
3.  read/write barriers


# Interface etc.

1.  liburing: helper libirary
2.  polled io vs. spdk?
3.  performance twice as aio; with polled io, 3x.


# References

<sup><a id="fn.1" href="#fnr.1">1</a></sup> <http://kernel.dk/io_uring.pdf>

<sup><a id="fn.2" href="#fnr.2">2</a></sup> <https://lwn.net/Articles/810414/>

<sup><a id="fn.3" href="#fnr.3">3</a></sup> <https://lwn.net/Articles/670231/>

<sup><a id="fn.4" href="#fnr.4">4</a></sup> <http://lkml.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/0409.1/2709.html>

<sup><a id="fn.5" href="#fnr.5">5</a></sup> <http://www.snellman.net/blog/archive/2016-12-13-ring-buffers/>

