---
layout: post
title: Hadoop NameNode and Checkpoint
---

Management of data is the core task of storage and database systems. And less
attention is on metadata, esp. in the traditional systems. Even in the design
of parallel or distributed systems, metadata is often assumed to be fit in
memory of a single node. Maybe  Hadoop is the most famous system. LinkedIn is
representive in the adoption of large scale Hadoop system. Evidence can be
found in its blogs, such as THE ENDLESS PURSUIT OF SCALE AT LINKEDIN<sup><a id="fnr.1" class="footref" href="#fn.1">1</a></sup>.

"The largest Hadoop cluster at LinkedIn — which is probably the largest one in
the world, certainly at a commercial entity if not a security agency for a major
nation — has 10,000 nodes and weighed in at 500PB of storage capacity in 2020".
"The single HDFS NameNode for this monster can serve remote procedure calls with
an average latency of under ten milliseconds, which is pretty good considering
that this HDFS cluster has over 1.6 billion objects (that metric counts
directories, files, and blocks together)." Yes, the cluster has 10,000 nodes,
500 PB of storage and 1.6 billion objects. And the single NameNode consumes
about 380 GB memory. How did LinkedIn go through the journey<sup><a id="fnr.2" class="footref" href="#fn.2">2</a></sup>?

"HDFS started running out of gas in 2016, and LinkedIn created Dynamometer to
measure HDFS NameSpace performance and to see how it will perform as more load
is applied to an actual system<sup><a id="fnr.3" class="footref" href="#fn.3">3</a></sup>." "YARN started running into 
trouble in 2019 as LinkedIn started pushing scale hard, and the company created 
DynoYARN to simulate load on YARN clusters at any size and with any workload. 
This DynoYARN modeler has been open-sourced as of <sup><a id="fnr.4" class="footref" href="#fn.4">4</a></sup>, too." It is
reported that LinkedIn stores 1 exabytes of data across all Hadoop clusters,
while the largest 10,000-node cluster stores 500 PB of data. QJM is used as
the Journal Service. The optimizations include Java tuning, such as the ration
of Young and Tenured genreration, global read-write lock in non-fair mode,
Dynamometer to test the workload before deployment. File less than 512MB is
treated as small, logging directory contains many small files (less than 1MB
on average), so moved to a dedicated cluster with the help of a homebrew fs
driver, FailoverFS. Observer node is the implementation of standby<sup><a id="fnr.5" class="footref" href="#fn.5">5</a></sup>.
Fast Path tailing transaction to reduce the gap between Observer and Active.
LastSeenStateId and LastWrittenStateId to help read your own writes. New HDFS
API FileSystem.msync() to solve third party communication. msync() is similar
to HDFS hsync(). The latter guarantees that the data is available for other
clients to read, while msync() provides the same guarantee for metadata. Now,
the NameNodes perform 150K ops/sec on average, peaking at 250K ops/sec, with
an average latency of 1-2 msec.

The data structure of NameNode is a combination of Java strucures, not B+
alike data structures used in database systems. And the checkpoint is a
full dump of the memory, but it can be implemented in the standby servers
called CheckpointNode<sup><a id="fnr.6" class="footref" href="#fn.6">6</a></sup>. Simplify the process of this kind of
functionality with the redundant node is popular in the primary/standy or
mutiple-replica deployment of systems. If there are no standby/replica node,
checkpoint can be offloaded to the storage system or some purpose-built
facility. A full checkpoint will take longer time when the footprint of the
metadata growes. Incremental checkpoints may help, but the algorithm can be
complex, and the merge of checkpoints can also be slower.


# Footnotes

<sup><a id="fn.1" href="#fnr.1">1</a></sup> <https://www.nextplatform.com/2021/09/15/the-endless-pursuit-of-scale-at-linkedin/>

<sup><a id="fn.2" href="#fnr.2">2</a></sup> <https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog/2021/the-exabyte-club--linkedin-s-journey-of-scaling-the-hadoop-distr>

<sup><a id="fn.3" href="#fnr.3">3</a></sup> <https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog/2018/02/dynamometer--scale-testing-hdfs-on-minimal-hardware-with-maximum>

<sup><a id="fn.4" href="#fnr.4">4</a></sup> <https://engineering.linkedin.com/blog/2021/scaling-linkedin-s-hadoop-yarn-cluster-beyond-10-000-nodes>

<sup><a id="fn.5" href="#fnr.5">5</a></sup> <https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-12943>

<sup><a id="fn.6" href="#fnr.6">6</a></sup> <https://hadoop.apache.org/docs/r2.4.1/hadoop-project-dist/hadoop-hdfs/HdfsUserGuide.html#Checkpoint_Node>
